---
title: guide
fieldset: default
id: 067980ea-e743-423d-9bcc-e06429022dd9
---
<div id="main_body"> <div class="topcontent"> <h1>Neuroscience Research Grants</h1> <p>The Foundation’s current area of research emphasis&nbsp;is in neuroscience. Selected proposals have the potential to improve human health or functioning.</p> <p>&nbsp;<strong>GENERAL POLICIES</strong></p> <p>The Foundation:</p> <ol> <li>Supports programs in science and health through specifically defined objectives in each field.</li> <li>Requires grantee institutions, in many cases, to share the cost of a project or raise matching funds.</li> <li>Makes no grants directly to individuals.</li> <li>Does not support annual operating costs of organizations, deficit reduction, capital campaigns, or individual sabbaticals.</li> <li>Does not schedule meetings with applicants, other than by specific invitation initiated by the Foundation.&nbsp;</li> </ol> <p><br><strong>&nbsp;ACTIVE PROGRAMS</strong></p> <p><a title="Brain and Immuno-Imaging: How to Apply" href="/grants/brain-and-immuno-imaging/howtoapply/"><strong>The David Mahoney Neuroimaging Program</strong></a>:&nbsp;Investigators use&nbsp;physiological and structural,&nbsp;cellular and molecular imaging techniques to pilot-test novel clinical hypotheses on the brain or interactions between brain and immune cells. Requests for Proposals (RFPs) are sent annually to deans of U.S. Medical Schools and other invited biomedical research institutions.</p> <p><a title="Clinical Neuroscience Research : How to Apply" href="/grants/clinical/howtoapply/"><strong>Clinical Neuro­science Research</strong></a>:&nbsp;Translational researchers apply to test promising therapies, from&nbsp;animal model research, in a small number of patients with devastating, currently untreatable, brain diseases. Also supported are studies to develop ethical guidelines for clinical brain research, and prognostic data based on treatment outcomes in patients with severe brain injuries or disorders.&nbsp;</p> </div> </div>
